# VE-RSPM

The repo includes scripts for editings in the input, model running, and output. The `input` folder include scripts to create or edit input files. The `output` folder contains scripts to reorganize and/or visualize output data. The `run` folder covers scripts for model running. Each of these three folders includes a folder `firstrun` that includes scripts for the initial efforts to explore VE-RSPM (Version 1.0 and 2.0, installers 2019-09-18 and 2020-09-18) for CLMPO in 2020, and a folder `nextgen` that includes scripts for the exploration on the Version 3.0 VisionEval "Next Generation" framework (installer 2022-05-27). The folders `debugging` and `package` are set up for scripts related to debugging and package issues. This notes document started from the exploration of version 3.0.

# How to start

The most recent version of VisionEval can be downloaded [here](https://visioneval.org/category/download.html). Install the required R version for the specific VE version before launching `VisionEval.Rproj` in the installer's folder to install VisionEval. The "[Getting Started](https://visioneval.org/docs/getting-started.html#getting-started)" is where to start on the set up and model running.

## VE 3.0 R4.1.3_2022-05-27

The walkthrough steps provide guidance to use the functions for model installation and running, input setting, and output queries and visualization. Key changes on this version are explained [here](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval-Dev/releases/tag/beta-release-0.9). Scenario running is the primary task in CLMPO. In the past, ODOT also requested to run three different models, 'reference (Ref)', 'target rule (TR)' and 'strategy recommended (STSRec)'. The practice in the first versions is to create folders with modified input files to run each scenario (it took up 78.1 GB in an external drive for 1297 scenarios!) and for staged models the baseline model is run repeatedly. In this version, the configuration and model running can be completed without creating extra files and repeatedly running the baseline model. The advantage of VE 3.0 also includes setting the number of processors. The walkthrough step 8 [developing scenarios](https://visioneval.org/docs/developing-scenarios.html) explains the details of scenario running steps in VE 3.0.
